welcome everyone today September 11th
this is the ipfs island welcome to
enroll at join this call today I will be
the moderator and Frank will be the
notes taker as always we invite everyone
to have items the agenda if you have
something to show something to ask
something to grab everyone's attention
to look at and if not we always have a
session of demos Indian show something
to show please do add an item to the to
the agenda cool we are getting more
people just now thank you for joining
cool so right now does anyone has an
agenda
did you just now I did you just post it
Jenny
okay so I'll just go first with the
president so Jessica first 0:26 there is
a very big issue on Jessica's that's
physically sized version zero three six
movies with a star and a rocket and it
lists all of the features and bug fixes
that are coming with these new release
there is a lot of performance and memory
usage improvements there is fixes that
happened to due to infrastructure
changes there there's a lot of stuff
there I intend to release it on
Wednesday as usual typically we we kind
of like prepared or release we create
the issue we start identifying what is
left what we want to including the
release and then went once we are ready
which was today I complete all of the
ioi detection in all of the future note
and I announce its true like I see
reddit Twitter and so on and give it two
days to see if someone like finds any
problem right now
like all the Espace both interrupts and
unit tests so we we don't have any
issues there if you find an issue with
this new release and to test its just
install it from master what is there as
soon as possible and yeah if you are
using just IP festivais definitely try
out master because you should see a lot
of performance improvements in the
browser and if there is no questions
Steven you're still with microphone
problems
do you think you can find a way to
connect your microphone like once you
dialed in with your phone network pretty
well
hey can I ask a question oh yeah
absolutely
how do no worse version of Jays ipfs
compare in performance would go out I
kept this and memory usage and we don't
have those metrics like we do have some
benchmarks and like we have like a repo
called ipfs performance profiling and it
compares just be passing notes just be
facing the browser both Chrome and
Firefox and then compares it to my PFS
like the bowl like the rough measure is
like because like like the it is a kind
of hard to beat like an implementation
it has access to multiple cores and and
that can like use the machines resources
like when when a recipe FS snows runs in
the browser
sometimes I hear myself I don't know if
someone's like maybe it's you see Mike
okay so like when Jesse first runs in
the browser it's really running in a
single thread environment and like using
the already sandbox environment that
Chrome's like puts it available so if
you are looking for performance and if
you don't need to run ipfs in a browser
definitely go with us there is no
question and I'm sorry my second
question C question is do you have plans
to for the system level implementation
yeah like restore or C for better
performance then could go at the FS and
if you do is there some similar
information public yeah so there is as I
mentioned on the last Alliance there is
already a lot of the pieces of IPs
building multiple languages some of the
pieces are built in breasts because I
built you see some of these I built in
even Python so that is all I want of
effort over the place right now we
invest a lot of time and energy on
developing the go and yes but I will be
quick
like if you are having comments issues
what are those and and and if you can
help us identify what are the
performance bottlenecks we know that we
still have some space to improve in both
denominations right now so it is wiser
to invest the time in the
implementations we have right now and
make sure that they are really really
performant
then starting a new one or investing a
lot of time in a new one just for the
sake of performance and I know that like
Jeremy might even like share that on
that like a lot of performance
improvements have been happening in the
last couple releases of like give us
yeah
there's stuff they've been a lot
performance improvements coming on
especially you know 410 if you're having
specific performance issues I definitely
recommend like filing an issue so we can
like take a look at it because we're
getting down on like the main issues and
if there's something specific that's
talking here then yeah let us know and
we'll take a look at it I'm more
interested in joining the effort and
contributing code personally so I'm
trying to find my place in that context
got it so I can point I cannot also
leave all the notes here of the islands
and we can also I talked to IRC there's
like some entry points for people that
are looking to help to contribute to
modules or to start a new implementation
even and I can point you to those places
so that you know where help is needed
for both all those languages yes thank
you so much
cool all right Stephen
is your mic working can you ask
aggression L yes I mic is working sorry
that Siobhan was turned down the other
promised blade with the relays I sorry
has someone merged the GS ffs really
fixes yet yes there are automatic but
none of the really like that stuff is
merchants and master yeah so but the
fixes we found last week those are fixed
and branches before we did the police
you might want to try versus adamastor
so we are fine with doing another
release formula I mean I briefly chatted
about that with dessert today NRC and
and the thing is it's like in jail and
we have the habit of creating what we
call and the name just came out of
nowhere but like we call it the awesome
endeavour right you might see some pink
labeled issues or pool requests is just
a DFS with saying awesome endeavour and
that essentially means it like there is
some feature that requires so many
changes across so many ripples that we
lease all the PRS really solve all the
issues and we kind of might keep track
it that way because if you want to test
it you know which reposed to clone to
change the branch to NPM wing and - can
I tell them all together and that's how
we test when we need to change is like
across like the entire stack right now
like everything that is a fix or an
improvement to relay can happen on the
branch for relay but none of those have
been merged master yet alright so there
is no real master yet
yeah there is no real a master yet yeah
but again like
that's something that's like we finished
this week we can release another version
this week because it is on a breaking
change like you we can totally have it
all right yep and i i i i think we're
waiting on basically tradition of the
integration interpretability testing
goes yes being a little bit of a
headache but i've done many tests anyway
but personal automated test
that's a fiat because i'm fine in
science but we are able to suppose this
week then yes that's good good
and once we have relay we can start
adding examples and like started having
browsers colliding google i professed
nodes everywhere
yep cool awesome
any other questions for this item so if
you are speaking with us Jeremy your
meted just ok that's good cool so this
is its journey you were adding something
to the notes weren't you didn't say that
in the beginning no no
so okay nevermind my name yeah I think
we are good man I quit there is no other
items on the agenda if no one wants to
speak about anything in particular I
don't know the only update from my end
is we're gonna going to be working on
hopefully get a release candidate cut
today for the next release of copy of s
and then move forward from there
hopefully have the actual or for 11
release this week yeah sounds good
I already have a pull request for
Jessica's API once that will is done but
they already tested with your IP per
semester there are three dishes the size
of like the bundle unless you're muted
can you could you hear me there we go
okay see ya bye xx okay so that's
something
what is it total it was 600 it's close
to 200
oh wow that's a lot yeah that's it yeah
it is essentially because like so like
right now the way that do you want muted
yourself again no it's not commuting
it's my someone is calling me and so
because my phone is also connected my
phone's its privileges my phone over my
so sorry about that AIE now went
applause cool so I was saying like
Jessica fares you can require a specific
part of Jessica's API you don't have to
like require the whole thing so if you
just want to use just a PFS api to add
files which was for example one of the
use cases or ipfs mini which was just
like a feature reduced fit yourself of
the api you can just require that
specific bits and before having a file
required to use also the object api
because it was trying to get the file
size remember a change and so since we
remove that now adding of
or getting a file doesn't require
touching the object API which doesn't
import any of the IPL be packages which
also doesn't important any of the crypto
stuff right so which connects youth
shims that's why it gets like so
compressed because it's just like really
like sending files like fetching phones
as it should be so so yeah that's going
to be fun yeah we are actually talking
with the altar of ipfs meaning to just
converge efforts now the series don't
need cool
that's exciting yeah all right cool
so thank you for the update oh we have
two demos all right I love it Pachi
Pachi am i pronouncing it correctly is
that you this is diesel the demos I gave
me this visa shake and I was meeting and
this years old and how should I
demo this thing out okay so welcome we
have these meetings every week and again
ike we go through several topics on IP
offense and then we do demos the way to
do demos typically is people like use
the share screen button at the bottom of
the zoom so you are in the circle
sometimes the lower bar the bar on the
bottom disappears but if you mouse over
the bottom you will have several options
invite manage participants pulling and
then it's like a green one saying share
screen yeah I see the button but
I don't know exactly what I should show
tell ya this hear me yeah we can hear
you perfectly oh nice
so let's share this thing I have written
a browser button for this so it's
already works in the browser now I have
just fine to window home so essentially
it can only download files from other
peers in 0 network so maybe I should so
but certainly this first unit especially
on Pitka Network which has science this
maybe I should have prepared to see but
I have no idea what I should say this is
ok when I do this um this way so this is
0 net this was written by Thomas
coziness and it's the software that has
basically distributed websites and
social network also and I have I took
the protocol of sir net and have added
early kid ps1 and yeah it connects using
the p2p WebSocket start with which is
someone who I have written some time ago
a week ago which was also literally
throat hopefully I guess release and
using this I can already download files
in the browser
and after all the stuff you finishes I
can show it's currently still
downloading files and now you can see it
downloaded defiance and so I don't know
should I go in detail how the
cryptography behind this works on a Mac
mechanism uh because I I really have no
idea what I should demo now someone can
yeah so I guess agree or not so I asked
questions some of us are familiar with
doing it so right now you implemented a
protocol from scratch if I understood
correctly like you implemented the the
whole thing in JavaScript yeah okay so
and then you replaced the network layer
with the peer-to-peer so so this has a
zero net implementation is not
connecting to the normal zero now I have
both swans in the browser the zero net
swamp is deactivated caustic uses
trackers which run over HTTP and UDP
which are both not accessible in the
browser but the client for the PC has
those forms so I downloaded the side
first of a PC client which has poked his
urine and so on and he repeated his form
and the browser clan dominated from the
zero net for my for my PC which has most
forms got it so you have kind of a proxy
nodes to connect like in your PC to
connect between two networks right yes
will you be able to avoid having a proxy
at all like will you be able to connect
to the regular network from the browser
then contract using relays maybe I don't
know how release exactly work but it
could be possible maybe using TCP
connections already peers that are
connected in a WebSocket star network
and have TCP got it easy is it possible
now to like retrieve a website from the
internet using your path you can only
retrieve the websites my proxy is
sitting and currently it has some
trouble downloading the rest of the
files there should be more than content
Jason but it's foggy because it's not
really finished and currently you can
only download the files my proxy node is
sitting but you can start your own and
the process that will eventually find it
and download the files from there please
furiously typing no it's ok I just okay
[Music]
it's cool like so pretty cool if like
you have amended a protocol again
and I can replace the network side for a
peer-to-peer I'd love to see it like
connecting to the real network and I
clothing websites we are the broken it
can't show the website currently but I
can download the browser the PC know
it's true but there is nothing on the
browser except a super web server so I
can mostly only show my channel and the
debug output
I have to first find the terminal
because I have 101 Austin I guess so
this is currently North first it starts
connects WebSockets and then all the
browser loads start directly connecting
to it and now when I go to the lodge to
work so what it adds to zero hello side
which is society to the browser download
it and now it's doing other things
most of the output is actually to save
it so basically it um somewhere up here
on it uses each torrent oh no I have to
complete debacle for trackers to save it
so let's do this first you can see the
files but I'll run it I hope I apologize
my slowness my shyness it's my first
conference it's been great yeah I get to
[Music]
so now I put it first creates laggy and
now you see a lot more debug output for
example from socket IO and now comes
interesting part
when I reload the page oh that was too
much with much and so basically it
scurried by
okay I think I can show this but anyways
first doesn't request tracker and then
it's against appears then it connects to
the peers using your zero adjust
protocol is a good idea maybe I totally
screwed up this demo no school okay okay
yeah so it's I don't know how to demo
this exactly you know worried it's like
I know that like you just jumped like to
do this demo out of invites pay so I
could do like super short notice it
seems like there's a lot of work there
and a lot of things that are already
connected they just need a little bit of
Polish and to make it more shiny but
like the the core
he's already on its way so that's cool
what took you - like what - idea to
start this project I looked at the zero
net code and talked like and candy spear
on the browser doesn't work in the
browser and then I first started
developing the PC client which at the
beginning didn't you can have lip utopia
and actually I didn't start with the
process the main idea but I first put it
basically if you have a trying for zero
net because I found it a bit hard to use
the Python version as modules and then I
had the idea of process
and then I added to the ps1 after
rewriting a few things and after one
month of work I finally had to browser
bundle awesome cool and it is like a
side project or are you I think you're
doing like finishing school right now it
is part of like research for school or
just hacking no it's just a personal
project and yeah it's my last yeah
maybe that I start working on top yeah
does anyone else ask questions
that's good that's cool that's cool yeah
cool thank you so much for jumping and
showing it like I learned about it today
and I captured like seven cool so any
other things discussed today that if you
want to use this app for otherwise I
guess we can close this meeting and go
back to the Internet's to continue
hacking and see everyone else next like
or the ring that I peel the deep dives
Thursday if you are interested
definitely go to the issue on ipfs p.m.
right Billy big dogs and yeah like give
a thumbs up to the comment that says
that the meeting is Thursday so that we
know how many people are coming all
right thank you so much have a great
week see you all hopefully during the
week or next week great to stop
recording I know
bye-bye hey guys goodbye